doc/LDPC_T2_OFFLOAD_SETUP.md, before:

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
  <tr style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
      <a href="http://www.openairinterface.org/">
         <img src="./images/oai_final_logo.png" alt="" border=3 height=50 width=150>
         </img>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none; vertical-align: center;">
      <b><font size = "5">OAI T1/T2 LDPC offload</font></b>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

**Table of Contents**

[[_TOC_]]

This documentation aims to provide a tutorial for AMD Xilinx T2 Telco card integration into OAI and its usage.

# Requirements

 - bitstream image and PMD driver for the T2 card provided by AccelerComm
 - DPDK 20.11.9 with patch from Accelercomm: version ACCL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch
 - tested on RHEL7.9, RHEL9.2, Ubuntu 22.04

# DPDK setup
## DPDK installation
*Note: Following instructions are valid for ACCL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch version, which is compatible with DPDK 20.11.9. Installation steps, which should be followed for older versions of the patch file (for example ACL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_BL_1006_build_1105_dev_branch_MCT_optimisations_1106_physical_std.patch) are present in older version of this documentation, under the tag 2023.w48.*

```
# Get DPDK source code
git clone https://github.com/DPDK/dpdk-stable.git ~/dpdk-stable
cd ~/dpdk-stable
git checkout v20.11.9
git apply ~/ACL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch
```
Replace `~/ACL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch` by patch file provided by
Accelercomm.
```
cd ~/dpdk-stable
meson setup build
# meson setup --prefix=/opt/dpdk-t2 build for installation with non-default installation prefix
cd build
ninja
sudo ninja install
sudo ldconfig
```
## DPDK configuration
 - load required kernel module
```
sudo modprobe vfio-pci
```
 - check presence of the card and its PCI addres on the host machine
```
lspci | grep "Xilinx"
```
 - bind the card with vfio-pci driver
```
sudo python3 ~/dpdk-stable/usertools/dpdk-devbind.py --bind=vfio-pci 41:00.0
```
Replace PCI address of the card *41:00.0* by address detected by *lspci | grep "Xilinx"* command
 - hugepages setup (10 x 1GB hugepages)
```
sudo python3 ~/dpdk-stable/usertools/dpdk-hugepages.py -p 1G --setup 10G
```

*Note: device binding and hugepages setup has to be done after every reboot of
the host machine*

# Modifications in the OAI code
## DPDK lib and PMD path specification
If DPDK library was installed into custom path, you have to point to the right directory with `PKG_CONFIG_PATH`, prior to the OAI build. Sample command to set the DPDK path to `/opt/dpdk-t2/lib64/pkgconfig/`:
```
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/opt/dpdk-t2/lib64/pkgconfig/:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH
```
## Setup of T2-related DPDK EAL parameters
To configure T2-related DPDK Environment Abstraction Layer (EAL) parameters, you can set the following parameters via the command line:
- `ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev` - **mandatory** parameter, specifies PCI address of the T2 card. PCI address of the T2 card can be detected by `lspci | grep "Xilinx"` command.
- `ldpc_offload.dpdk_cores_list` - CPU cores assigned to DPDK for T2 processing, by default set to *11-12*. Ensure that the CPU cores specified in *ldpc_offload.dpdk_cores_list* are available and not used by other processes to avoid conflicts.
- `ldpc_offload.dpdk_prefix` - DPDK shared data file prefix, by default set to *b6*

# OAI Build
OTA deployment is precisely described in the following tutorial:
- [NR_SA_Tutorial_COTS_UE](https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g/-/blob/develop/doc/NR_SA_Tutorial_COTS_UE.md)
Instead of section *3.2 Build OAI gNB* from the tutorial, run following commands:

```
# Get openairinterface5g source code
git clone https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g.git ~/openairinterface5g
cd ~/openairinterface5g
git checkout develop

# Install OAI dependencies
cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets
./build_oai -I

# Build OAI gNB
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets
./build_oai -w USRP --ninja --gNB -P --build-lib "ldpc_t2" -C
```

Shared object file *libldpc_t2.so* is created during the compilation. This object is conditionally compiled. Selection of the library to compile is done using *--build-lib ldpc_t2*.

*Required poll mode driver has to be present on the host machine and required DPDK version has to be installed on the host, prior to the build of OAI*

# 5G PHY simulators
## nr_ulsim test
Offload of the channel decoding to the T2 card is in nr_ulsim specified by *-o* option. Example command for running nr_ulsim with LDPC decoding offload to the T2 card:
```
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
sudo ./nr_ulsim -n100 -s20 -m20 -r273 -R273 -o --ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev 01:00.0
```
## nr_dlsim test
Offload of the channel encoding to the AMD Xilinx T2 card is in nr_dlsim specified by *-c* option. Example command for running nr_dlsim with LDPC encoding offload to the T2 card:
```
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
sudo ./nr_dlsim -n300 -s30 -R 106 -e 27 -c --ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev 01:00.0
```

# OTA test
Offload of the channel encoding and decoding to the AMD Xilinx T2 card is enabled by *--ldpc-offload-enable* option.

## Run OAI gNB with USRP B210
```
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
sudo ./nr-softmodem --sa -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf --ldpc-offload-enable --ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev 01:00.0
```

# Limitations
## AMD Xilinx T2 card
 - functionality of the LDPC encoding and decoding offload verified in OTA SISO setup with USRP N310 and Quectel RM500Q, blocking of the card reported for MIMO setup (2 layers)

*Note: AMD Xilinx T1 Telco card is not supported anymore.*

Commit message:

feat(ldpc-decoding-module-interface-rework): enable configuration of bbdev in the T2 slot decoding and update T2 documentation

doc/LDPC_T2_OFFLOAD_SETUP.md, after:

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
  <tr style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
      <a href="http://www.openairinterface.org/">
         <img src="./images/oai_final_logo.png" alt="" border=3 height=50 width=150>
         </img>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none; vertical-align: center;">
      <b><font size = "5">OAI T1/T2 LDPC offload</font></b>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

**Table of Contents**

[[_TOC_]]

This documentation aims to provide a tutorial for AMD Xilinx T2 Telco card integration into OAI and its usage.

# Requirements

 - bitstream image and PMD driver for the T2 card provided by AccelerComm
 - DPDK 20.11.9 with patch from Accelercomm: version ACCL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch
 - tested on RHEL7.9, RHEL9.2, Ubuntu 22.04

# DPDK setup
## DPDK installation
*Note: Following instructions are valid for ACCL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch version, which is compatible with DPDK 20.11.9. Installation steps, which should be followed for older versions of the patch file (for example ACL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_BL_1006_build_1105_dev_branch_MCT_optimisations_1106_physical_std.patch) are present in older version of this documentation, under the tag 2023.w48.*

```
# Get DPDK source code
git clone https://github.com/DPDK/dpdk-stable.git ~/dpdk-stable
cd ~/dpdk-stable
git checkout v20.11.9
git apply ~/ACL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch
```
Replace `~/ACL_BBDEV_DPDK20.11.3_ldpc_3.1.918.patch` by patch file provided by
Accelercomm.
```
cd ~/dpdk-stable
meson setup build
# meson setup --prefix=/opt/dpdk-t2 build for installation with non-default installation prefix
cd build
ninja
sudo ninja install
sudo ldconfig
```
## DPDK configuration
 - load required kernel module
```
sudo modprobe vfio-pci
```
 - check presence of the card and its PCI addres on the host machine
```
lspci | grep "Xilinx"
```
 - bind the card with vfio-pci driver
```
sudo python3 ~/dpdk-stable/usertools/dpdk-devbind.py --bind=vfio-pci 41:00.0
```
Replace PCI address of the card *41:00.0* by address detected by *lspci | grep "Xilinx"* command
 - hugepages setup (10 x 1GB hugepages)
```
sudo python3 ~/dpdk-stable/usertools/dpdk-hugepages.py -p 1G --setup 10G
```

*Note: device binding and hugepages setup has to be done after every reboot of
the host machine*

# Modifications in the OAI code
## DPDK lib and PMD path specification
If DPDK library was installed into custom path, you have to point to the right directory with `PKG_CONFIG_PATH`, prior to the OAI build. Sample command to set the DPDK path to `/opt/dpdk-t2/lib64/pkgconfig/`:
```
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/opt/dpdk-t2/lib64/pkgconfig/:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH
```
## Setup of T2-related DPDK EAL parameters
To configure T2-related DPDK Environment Abstraction Layer (EAL) parameters, you can set the following parameters via the command line:
- `ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev` - **mandatory** parameter, specifies PCI address of the T2 card. PCI address of the T2 card can be detected by `lspci | grep "Xilinx"` command.
- `ldpc_offload.dpdk_cores_list` - CPU cores assigned to DPDK for T2 processing, by default set to *11-12*. Ensure that the CPU cores specified in *ldpc_offload.dpdk_cores_list* are available and not used by other processes to avoid conflicts.
- `ldpc_offload.dpdk_prefix` - DPDK shared data file prefix, by default set to *b6*

**Note:** When doing one-shot decoding of slots, the implementation of the initialization is different and allows to provide the device address and the list of isolated cores in the gNB configuration.
They can sit in the *nr_ulsch_decoding* section of the gNB configuration or on the command line with options *--nr_ulsch_decoding.dpdk_dev "<device address>" --nr_ulsch_decoding.dpdk_core_list "<isolated cpu list>"*

# OAI Build
OTA deployment is precisely described in the following tutorial:
- [NR_SA_Tutorial_COTS_UE](https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g/-/blob/develop/doc/NR_SA_Tutorial_COTS_UE.md)
Instead of section *3.2 Build OAI gNB* from the tutorial, run following commands:

```
# Get openairinterface5g source code
git clone https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g.git ~/openairinterface5g
cd ~/openairinterface5g
git checkout develop

# Install OAI dependencies
cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets
./build_oai -I

# Build OAI gNB
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets
./build_oai -w USRP --ninja --gNB -P --build-lib "ldpc_t2" -C
```

Shared object file *libldpc_t2.so* is created during the compilation. This object is conditionally compiled. Selection of the library to compile is done using *--build-lib ldpc_t2*.

*Required poll mode driver has to be present on the host machine and required DPDK version has to be installed on the host, prior to the build of OAI*

# 5G PHY simulators
## nr_ulsim test
Offload of the channel decoding to the T2 card is in nr_ulsim specified by *-o* option. Example command for running nr_ulsim with LDPC decoding offload to the T2 card:
```
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
sudo ./nr_ulsim -n100 -s20 -m20 -r273 -R273 -o --ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev 01:00.0
```
## nr_dlsim test
Offload of the channel encoding to the AMD Xilinx T2 card is in nr_dlsim specified by *-c* option. Example command for running nr_dlsim with LDPC encoding offload to the T2 card:
```
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
sudo ./nr_dlsim -n300 -s30 -R 106 -e 27 -c --ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev 01:00.0
```

# OTA test
Offload of the channel encoding and decoding to the AMD Xilinx T2 card is enabled by *--ldpc-offload-enable* option.

## Run OAI gNB with USRP B210
```
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
sudo ./nr-softmodem --sa -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf --ldpc-offload-enable --ldpc_offload.dpdk_dev 01:00.0
```

# OTA test with slotwise decoding
Decoding with the AMD Xilinx T2 is also available with a newer interface allowing one-shot decoding of slots.
Refer to [LDPCImplementation.md](https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g/-/blob/develop/openair1/PHY/CODING/DOC/LDPCImplementation.md) for more information on this newer interface.
Offload of the channel encoding and decoding to the AMD Xilinx T2 card is enabled by *--ulsch-decode-enable --loader.nr_ulsch_decoding.shlibversion _interface_t2* options.
Then it is also necessary to provide the device address and the list of cores isolated for DPDK in the gNB *nr_ulsch_decoding* section of the configuration or through the command line with the options *--nr_ulsch_decoding.dpdk_dev "<device address>" --nr_ulsch_decoding.dpdk_core_list "<isolated cpu list>"*

## Run OAI gNB with USRP B210
```
cd ~/openairinterface5g
source oaienv
cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
sudo ./nr-softmodem --sa -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf --ulsch-decode-enable --loader.nr_ulsch_decoding.shlibversion _interface_t2 --nr_ulsch_decoding.dpdk_dev "41:00.0" --nr_ulsch_decoding.dpdk_core_list "14-15"
```

# Limitations
## AMD Xilinx T2 card
 - functionality of the LDPC encoding and decoding offload verified in OTA SISO setup with USRP N310 and Quectel RM500Q, blocking of the card reported for MIMO setup (2 layers)

*Note: AMD Xilinx T1 Telco card is not supported anymore.*
